# Data-from-Gala-and-Izuho-2025-
Data collected for the paper titled "Cultural evolution and geometric morphometrics reveal a morphological relationship between Yubetsu microblade cores in Northeast Asia and Eastern Beringia" by Nicholas Gala and Masami Izuho. 
Data included contains standardized images taken of Strict Yubetsu cores from the Pacific Rim, data sets containing relative warp variances, platform width, platform length, mean within-group variance, and geographic distance measurements, and R code. 

SEE RELEASES FOR THE FOLLOWING

SI1 contains the images taken from microblade cores from the island of Hokkaido, Sakhalin, Siberia, and Alaska for the placement of landmarks for geometric morphometric analysis. All images are standardly oriented as they were for our analysis and organized according to their region. 

SI2 contains one .csv file with three sheets. Sheet 1 "data" contains information regarding the calculated variance for each relative warp, the calculated weighted within-group mean variance, its standard error, the weights per each rel warp, and the sample size of each region. Sheet 2 "rel warp%" contains the percent that each relative warp, standardized shape variables, contributed to the total measured variance per region that we calculated. "cumulative rel warp%" presents the same data but as cumulative percents. These values were used to weight the calculated mean within-group variances. Relative warp scores were pulled from the outputs of tpsRelw. Scores will deviate slightly depending on where landmarks are digitized. See paper for methodology. 

SI3 contains four files. "YMB_Data" contains the calculated weighted mean within-group variances for each region and associated geographic distances from site "origins" in each region. These data were used to produce the main analysis of the paper. "RW_W" contains relative warp scores for Relative warp 1, Relative Warp 2, and measured platform widths in mm. "RW_L" contains relative warp scores for Relative warp 1, Relative Warp 2, and measured platform lengths in mm. Relative warp scores were pulled from the outputs of tpsRelw. Scores will deviate slightly depending on where landmarks are digitized. See paper for methodology. "script" contains the code to replicate results.
